Making small adjustments in your prompts to an AI model  can cause huge differences in the output that you get.  So in this video, you don't learn  the different prompting techniques  to get the highest quality output.  By the end of this video,  you're gonna put all of that together  and build a dynamic prompt in an interactive prompting tool.  So with that being said, I'm really excited  and I hope you are too, let's get into it.  All right, so all of this code that I'm about to show you here  is gonna be provided in the description below.  So make sure to download it and follow along with me.  So throughout this video, I'm gonna be tweaking  only this user prompt.  So right now it's really simple.  It just says explain what a Python list is  and then the whole model is going to provide beginners  with support in this language.  So let's get started with running the code first.  I'm gonna first activate the virtual environment.  So I get access to these packages.  So I'm gonna do that really quick.  Now we're in the virtual environment, as you can see here.  And then I'm ready to run it.  So I'm gonna say Python and then the name of the file.  All right, so the program just finished running  and we can see here that we have a print statement  that says starter prompt and then the next print statement,  which is this one, handles displaying the text content  of the model's output.  And so we can see here, if I expand this,  it says it gives us a really nice description  of a Python list and it's really nice  because this was a very basic user prompt  that we fed the model.  So now we're gonna do a lot more advanced things with this.  So let's move on to the first prompting technique,  which is giving it clear instructions and a goal.  It's really important to be more specific  in our user prompt because the more specific our prompt is,  the more tailored our output is gonna be.  So we're gonna update the user prompt  by saying user prompt is equal to  and then we're gonna say, we're gonna provide more context  to who the user is.  So we'll say I am someone who has never coded before.  These explain what a Python list is  and use three different analogies  to help my understanding.  It's a really good idea whenever you give,  whenever you prompt something to a model,  provide some context of who the model is talking to.  And so in this case, I said I'm someone  who has never coded before.  So that way the model knows, okay,  the audience that I'm reaching out to right now  is someone who has no prior experience encoding.  It's gonna make it slightly more tailored  so that the output is more beginner-friendly.  And we even said over here, use three different analogies  to help my understanding.  So we're providing it with a clear audience  and a clear goal.  So when it comes to printing out the model's response,  we can just copy and paste whatever we said  in the starter prompt, put it in here  and then change this to method one  and then clear instructions and goal.  Then I'm also gonna do some more formatting things  to make it the output look neater.  All right, so I'm gonna run that by saying python.  Or python in the name of the file.  Okay, so the program just finished running  and we can see that we got their response for the starter prompt  and we also got the model's response for this,  this prompting technique that we just implemented,  which is providing the clear audience and goal.  So it says absolutely and then it explains,  it gives the analogy and it gives three more analogies  like I specified in the user prompt.  You can kind of see where this is going.  We're just tweaking the prompt  and giving it specific details  so that we get the answer that we want.  But with that being said,  let's move on to the next one  and that is using a specific tone.  So for this one, we're basically adding an extra sentence  at the very end of the user prompt,  specifying the tone that we want the model  to print the response in.  For this one, I'm just gonna copy the starter prompt  that we have up here  and then I'm just gonna add,  please use a friendly and encouraging tone.  I'm gonna copy this like I did before  and let's see what it looks like.  There's a lot of different tones you can play around with.  I'm just sticking with this one.  Okay, if you look at the response for that technique,  we can see it's pretty similar to what we got in the first technique.  But this one is a little bit more encouraging, I guess,  because you got these emojis over here and down here.  If you want the model to have it say something a certain way,  then you just specify the tone like this.  Alright, the third technique is specifying the format  and this is really important  because if we don't explicitly state  how we want the LLM to say something,  then it's going to assume our intentions  using general patterns.  And this is something that we don't want  because we're just gonna end up getting a very generic answer.  So the more constraints that we specify,  the better the output is gonna be.  Okay, so I already typed this before  but I'm just gonna paste it here to save time  because it is a longer prompt.  So this prompt that we're feeding to the model  is going to list three things that we want from the response.  So this is really good prompt  because we're being very clear  in how we want our response to be formatted.  And so I'm just going to, again, I'm gonna paste in  the open AI.chat.completion.create  and I'm gonna copy in this these print statements  and I'm gonna change this up  and let me run that in the terminal.  Alright, so the program finish running  and you can see here that it's a lot shorter  because we told the model to only have,  have the output be in these three different sections.  So we have the simple one sentence definition.  We have the example and then we have  the one sentence explanation of the example.  Okay, the last technique that I wanna talk about  is called one-shot prompting  and this is where we provide one concrete example  of what unexpected input and output of the model should look like.  So this is a little bit different.  I'm gonna paste it because I wrote this down before.  It's a little bit different from the previous technique  because in the previous technique we specified  how we want our answer to be structured.  So in that case, the LLM is learning from the syntax  but in this case, in this one-shot prompting,  the LLM is learning from the pattern that we give it.  It's a subtle difference and it's important to know.  So we can see here that we're giving it input  and then we're providing with an expected output  and then we're giving it a question  and then we want it to have the same structure  as the one we just gave it.  I hope this makes sense because this is one  of the more complex one I'd say  and let's see what that gives us.  All right, so the program just finished running  and we can see here that's pretty similar to this one.  The previous technique but in this technique,  it gives us the output in the way,  exact same way that we provided the input.  All right, now we're gonna take everything we learned  from the previous prompting techniques  and put it all together into a dynamic prompt.  So I'm gonna have three different variables.  The first one's gonna be the audience.  Second one's gonna be the tone  and the third one is going to be the format instructions.  And the way we're gonna do this  is that we're gonna use something called an F string.  So let me just fill out these variables first like that.  So we're gonna pass in these three variables into our prompt  and there's one other variable I forgot to mention.  It's the topic and our topic is going to be Python lists.  So now we're going to create the user prompt  using all of the variables that we made.  We can add an F string by putting an F  and then building out the string from there.  So now whenever we want to pass in these variables  into our prompt, we wrap it around curly braces.  So let me just show you what that looks like.  So let's say we're gonna explain  and then we're gonna explain the topic to our audience  and we're gonna tell it say please respond in this tone.  So whatever you see in within these curly braces  is what's going to be passed in.  So in this case, we have a topic variable.  So the Python list is gonna be passed into that prompt  and same goes with the other variables.  And then we're gonna also tell it to format the answer  like this and then we pass in the format instructions.  So now that we have our user prompt built out,  we're ready to make the API call  and then we're going to print the output  of whatever the model displays.  So let me do these print statements.  The reason why this is dynamic is because we can change this.  We can change any of these variables  to a different value and the model will still be able  to give you an answer.  So if we run that, then you'll see if we scroll  all the way down below over to our dynamic prompt,  we can see that it gives us the model gives us an output  in the friendly and encouraging tone  and it also formatted in the way that we specified.  So it's got the topic right, it's got the tone right,  it's got the audience right  and it's got the format instructions right.  So it's really cool how we're able to pass  in these variables into our prompt  and I wanna show you one more thing  that is going to make this whole program more interactive.  Okay, the way we're gonna do this  is with input statements.  So I'm gonna copy the variables we just created  and paste it down below.  And what we're building here is an interactive prompting tool.  That's going to ask the user for specific details  and then based on the details that the user prompts  or the user feeds in, the model is going to tailor  its answer based on that.  We're gonna tweak the topic and the tone.  So I wanna say, instead of Python lists,  I'm gonna say input and then I'm gonna say  what Python topic are you interested in learning?  And then for the tone, I'll say input and then  which kind of tone is best suited for your learning.  Something like that.  And then I'll say in parentheses, I'll pass in friendly,  professional, et cetera.  Those are the only tweaks we need  to make this program interactive  because once you get this input statement in,  it's gonna enable the user to be able  to pass in their own details.  So I'm going to, again, do the response variable  with the openAI.chat.completions that create API call  and then we're going to do the print statements again  and we have all these print statements  to make the output look a little bit neater.  I'm also going to copy the user prompt  from previously and then we're going to  paste it down over here because we wanna make sure  to update the user prompt to give the model  the new user prompt based on the new topic variable  and the new tone variable.  I'm also going to move this, these print statements  over here right before the input statements  that we're gonna get.  This is gonna make more sense once you see the actual output.  So let me do some more formattings like this  and now that should be good to go.  So we're basically taking the topic,  taking the tone from the users  and then the audience and the format instructions  stay the same.  Let's run that.  All right, here we go.  So if we finish running and we can see here  we have the interactive prompting tool  and it's gonna ask us what Python topic  are we interested in learning?  So let's say four loops and let's say  that we want a more professional tone  that's better suited for our learning.  So now it's going to think about these two inputs  that we gave the program.  The models gonna take in those are our two inputs  as well as the audience variable  and the format instructions variable  to give us this nice output that we see over here.  So it says a four loop is a way to repeat a block of code,  code multiple times, give us the example code  as well as giving us a one sentence explanation  of this example.  So to sum everything up, we talked about  four different prompting techniques.  The first one was providing clear instructions  in the goal.  The second one was giving specific tone.  The third one was giving it specific format  so that the model can follow an explicit set of rules.  And the fourth one was called one shot prompting  where we give it an expected input and output  for the LLM to learn from.  And then we also built a dynamic prompt  where we use f strings to be able to take in  the values of the variable and pass it as our user prompt  so that the model can process it.  And then in the very end, we made this interactive prompting  tools that takes in our user input  for the topic and the tone variables.  So that was a lot of information  and I know that it might have been overwhelming.  So if you have any questions on this content,  I've provided cheat sheets and guided notes  in the description below and make sure to watch  the previous video in this playlist.  If you're confused on some of the code  that I copied and pasted but I didn't really explain  as much in depth, such as this block of code over here.  Thank you guys so much for watching  and if you found it helpful, please hit that like  and subscribe button because it really helps support  the channel.  If you haven't watched the first video in this playlist,  then you can check it out over here.  If you want to see the next video in this playlist,  you can check it out over here.  If it's not out though, then make sure to stay tuned  for that one.