Hey guys, welcome to the ninth video  in this Pandas Crash Course playlist,  where I keep each video around five to 10 minutes long.  So in this video, we're gonna talk about sorting data  in Pandas.  That being said, let's get right into it.  In the previous video, we learned how to group data  and perform calculations on each group.  Now, we're gonna take a step even further  and learn how to sort the values  after we've grouped the data.  As usual, we're going to import the Pandas library  by saying import Pandas as PD  and then reading the data frame that we have in our folder  and then we're going to also say df.head.  This is gonna return the first five rows in the data frame.  The sorting group results is really useful  because it makes making the comparisons a lot easier.  So let me show you what I mean by that.  So over here, we have this example  where we're grouping by the state  and we're getting the average poverty rate for each state.  So let me just write that down real quick.  So we're gonna type up the state  and then the poverty rate  and then we have the average  and let's see what that gives us.  So this is a quick review of last lesson  which talked about the basic group by statement  and this returns a series of the outputs that we wanted.  However, it's really hard for me to see  which state has the highest or lowest average poverty rate  because just by looking at this,  I have to manually do the comparisons in my head.  So let's use this sort of values method  to make this comparison a lot easier for me.  Let's say we paste that  and then we say dot sort values  and then once we do that,  we're able to quickly identify  okay, which ones the state with the lowest average poverty rate  and which ones the state with the highest average poverty rate?  No need for manual comparisons in your head.  You can just look at it by looking at the first few values  which tell you the lowest poverty rates.  And I also wanna mention that the default  if we don't put any parameters inside this method,  then by default is going to return the values  in ascending order.  So let's say that we wanted to see the highest  average poverty rates first.  Then we're gonna say ascending is equal to false.  And then we run that and we can see  that Mississippi is the state with the highest average poverty  rate in this data set.  We can also calculate or retrieve the top 10 states  with the highest average poverty rate  by essentially using the same line of code that we did  and then just adding another method.  And this is one that we've seen before.  It's the head method and inside we pass in 10.  This is gonna return the series of the top 10 states  with the highest average poverty rates.  If you want to store the group results  in a separate data frame,  then we can create another variable  and then we're going to paste  or copy and paste this line of code,  get rid of the head method  and then inside the group by parentheses,  we're gonna say as index is equal to false  because if we don't do that, by default,  the values in this state column  is going to be part of the index.  However, now we want to be part of the actual data.  So we're gonna say specify false  and then we also need to make an adjustment  in our sort of values method  because now essentially this is turning from a series  into a data frame.  And so we need to specify which column  we need to sort the values by.  So we're going to use a parameter by saying  buy is equal to and then we specify the column name  which is poverty rate.  And if I didn't miss anything that should work,  let me retrieve the first 10 rows by saying  head and then 10.  And it says we got an error.  And the reason why I got this error  is because I spelled the column name wrong,  it's supposed to be a lowercase r, so if I run that,  now it's going to show me the new data frame  that has all the group results.  And this is really useful because we can perform,  we can build some visualizations off of this  and that's something that I'll talk about  in a completely another video.  All right, now let's talk about sorting  and ascending or descending order.  And I briefly touched upon this,  we just use the sort values method  and then specify the ascending parameter.  However, we can also do this on the whole data frame.  So let me show you.  We can say df and then dot sort values.  And then we specify buy is equal to the column name  because we want to sort the poverty rates.  And like I said before, by default,  it's going to sort the values by ascending order.  So if I run that, then we can see if I go all the way  to the poverty rate, we can see that the lowest  poverty rates, the first row, and then all the way down,  we have the highest poverty rate.  Okay, for this next example, it's essentially the same,  except we're just sorting this by descending order,  so we just say ascending is equal to false, run that,  and then now it's the opposite.  So we get the highest poverty rate showing up  in the first row of our data set.  Okay, now let's talk about sorting by multiple columns.  So this is another pretty straightforward topic.  So if we say df dot sort values,  and then let's say we want to sort by both the state column  and the year column, we just use the by parameter  and say it's equal to, and then we pass it as a list  if we want to sort by multiple columns.  So let's say state and then year.  This is going to first do the sorting based on the state  and ascending orders, which is why we have  all the Alabama's up here, and then all the Wyoming's down here.  After that sorting is done, we're going to go over  to sorting by the year in ascending order.  And so we're going to do, we're going to have 2005 here,  all the way up to 2009, and it's going to do that ascending  order for the year for every single state.  So the order of sorting multiple columns does matter.  Let's just switch it just to show you what I mean.  So let's say we have year first, and then we have state.  It's first going to sort by the years,  which is why we have all the 2005's here,  and all the 2015's here.  After that year sorting is done, we're  going to sort by the states in ascending order.  OK, hope that makes sense.  Now let's talk about sorting in different directions  for these multiple columns.  So let's say that, let's change it back to state and year.  Let's say that I want to have the state column  be sorted in ascending order, but the year column  be sorted in descending order.  Do that, I just say ascending.  And then I said equal to, and then pass it as a list,  and say the state column is going to be true.  The year column is going to be false.  I run that.  Now we can see that the states are still in ascending order,  but now the year starts out with the highest.  Now let's talk about handling the indexes while we sort.  Let's say that we want to sort the data frame  based on the poverty rate column, like we did before,  and we want to do it in descending order.  Let's put this into another data frame variable,  and let me see what that looks like.  We can see here that even after sorting these values,  their original index labels remain the same,  because we see it starts at 260 instead of 0.  So this is a really quick fix.  We can just copy this sort of df variable,  and then say reset index.  And this is going to change the index  so that it goes from 0 to the all the way  to the how many number of rows there are.  The only issue is that we have this annoying index column  over here.  So if we wanted to get rid of that as well,  then let me copy this again, and then we paste it,  and we can say drop is equal to true.  Now we have all the indices in the right order,  and we also got rid of that annoying index column.  And so because this method is not in place,  if we took a look at our sort of df,  then none of the changes would be in place  because we haven't actually put this into another variable.  So let me just say sort of df is equal to this,  and let me copy this.  And now our sort of df is going to have the changes that we made.  Sometimes we don't even need to sort the entire data frame.  We could just get the rows with the largest  or smallest values.  And so we can do that with both the enlarged method  and the end smallest method.  Let's say that we want the highest five unemployment rates.  To do that, we just say df dot n largest,  and then the first parameter is going  to be how many values we want.  So that's five.  Second parameter is the column name.  So that's unemployment rate.  And so if I do that, it's going to return all the rows  that correspond with the highest five unemployment rates,  along with all the other columns.  What if we only want to get a few select columns?  Well, we can do that by saying copy this.  And then we also say we pass in two sets of square brackets  and then we say the columns that we want to display.  So we want the state, the year, and the unemployment rate.  Now it's not going to show me all the other columns.  It's just going to show me what I want.  Our same goes for the smallest or the lowest  unemployment rates.  So I'm just going to copy this.  And then instead of saying, and largest,  it's going to be n smallest.  We run that.  Then this is going to give us the five rows  with the smallest unemployment rates  and then to get the columns that we wanted.  As before, we just copy what we said before with the largest  method, but we just changed this to smallest.  And this is going to give us only the columns that we want.  All right, so that's all I got for this video.  I know there's a lot of information.  So if you have any questions, then feel free to let me know  in the comments below.  And make sure to check out the previous lesson that's  going to show up on the left hand side of the screen  and the next lesson, which is going  to show up on the right hand side of the screen,  if that's out already.  So thank you guys so much for watching  and hope you have a good day.