Hey guys, welcome to the fourth video in this Pandas Crash Course playlist where I keep  each video around 5 to 10 minutes long.  So in today's lesson, we're going to be talking about filtering data in pandas.  So that being said, let's get right into it.  In the previous lesson, we talked about selecting specific rows and columns from a data frame.  If you saw that previous video, then you saw that we ended it off by talking about a topic  called Boolean Masking.  So today, we're going to expand on that and we're going to talk about what goes on behind  the scenes.  So let's say we have this small data frame over here.  It contains two columns, name and score, and we have four rows.  If we have this condition where we say, df score is greater than 90, what that's going  to do is panda is going to create a temporary series that stores Boolean values.  So we can see over here, we have another series and true represents when that row is meeting  the condition, while false represents when the row does not meet the condition.  If we line it up like that, then it makes more sense because we can see here that this score  of 85 is false because it's less than 90.  This score of 74 is false because it's also less than 90.  So this allows pandas to check each row one by one and only keep the rows where the values  of this series is true.  This allows pandas to check each row one by one and so we're only going to keep the rows  that have true in the temporary series that we have.  So if we do df and then we pass in the condition inside the outer score brackets, that's going  to do the Boolean masking.  I'm going to be doing more of this later in this video.  So keep watching because you're going to feel more comfortable using this notation.  As usual, we're going to import the pandas library by saying import pandas as PD and  then we're going to be reading in the CSV file of the data and it's going to be stay  crime stats.csv.  So df.head and that's going to return the first five rows in the data frame.  All right, now that you understand what a Boolean mask is, we're going to talk about single  condition filtering.  What that is is we're basically applying one rule in our filtering.  If you look at this basic format, you can see here that it's just the single condition  within the outer score brackets, just like I mentioned before.  So let's do an example with the year column and say df in the year just to explore and see  what it looks like.  So that just returns the series of all the years.  And now we're going to say df and then we're going to also say df in the year.  And let's say we want to only return the rows where the year is equal to 2005.  It's exactly the same as an if statement, however, instead of having the if keyword, we're  not including that in this case because the pandas data frame automatically does the filtering  based on whatever rule we give it.  So if we run that, then it's only going to return the rows where the year is equal to 2005.  It's pretty straightforward and let's do another example just to make this concept even  more clear.  So let's say let's explore the column that's called crime count burglary.  And so this is going to return the series and then we're going to do the single condition  filtering again.  So we say df and then inside the square brackets, we passed in the condition and let's say that  we want it to be greater than 50,000 and let's run that.  And then we'll see here all the rows that contain the corresponding condition.  So these represent all the states that have the high burglary amounts.  All right, now let's talk about multiple condition filtering and this is where we pass in more  than one condition.  In this table, you see symbols and each symbol represents a different meaning.  So let me talk about the first one, which is using the ampersand operator.  This ampersand operator means that both conditions must be true.  So for this example, Alabama and robbery, we have to say df and then we pass in our first  condition, which is df and then state is equal to equal equals Alabama.  And then when we list our next condition, we use the ampersand operator.  We also need to make sure this is a mistake that many beginners make is that they forget  to include the parentheses.  So that is something we need to make sure we do when we're dealing with multiple conditions.  In this case, we're going to wrap the next condition in parentheses and say df and then if  I scroll up to the column name, it's going to be crime count robbery.  So let's say this is greater than 50,000 and I got to put this inside the parenthesis like  that.  So if we run that, then we see we get no rows, which means that there are no rows that  fall under both these conditions.  So let me decrease the robbery value and now we can see we do have a few rows where the  robbery count is greater than 5,000 as well as the state is equal to Alabama.  I hope that makes sense.  Okay, this next example is going to highlight the or operator and this uses the pipe operator  if that's what it's called.  So I'm going to say df, if I go into cell, I'm going to say df and then we're going to pass  in the first condition, which is df dot state or df state is equal to Washington and we need  to make sure to have our parentheses and then we're going to use the pipe and then say df state  is equal to California and put that inside parentheses.  So if we run that, this is going to give us all the rows where the state is equal to California  or if it's equal to Washington because we said or we're able to see all of these rows.  If we said and, then it would not work because a row cannot have two states at the same time.  That's why for this one we need to say or so whenever you're analyzing a data set and you  want to filter something, you need to think about what column you're filtering on and you  need to think about the use case and based on that use case and column, you can decide whether  it's appropriate to use an and operator or an or operator.  Now we're going to talk about reversing conditions and this is when we want to filter  for rows that do not match a condition.  So we're going to use this operator to reverse the condition that we specify.  Let's say that we want to get all the rows from the data set that do not correspond with  a state of Alabama.  So we're going to say this operator and then we're going to pass in the parentheses and say df  state equal to Alabama and for this case, we need to make sure to include parentheses to  tell pandas what condition we want to reverse.  So if we run that, then we can see that Alabama is excluded from this result.  We can also reverse multiple conditions at once.  So we can say df and then we use the operator, the reverse operator, and then we say imperentities  and then imperentities again, we're going to say df state and let's say we don't want  Washington.  And you got to make sure to get the parentheses right because it can get a little bit confusing  once we have a lot of parentheses in our code.  So we're going to say we don't want the state of Washington and we don't want the state,  we don't want the year of 2015.  So what this is going to do is it's going to retrieve us all the rows that don't include  a state of Washington and a year of 2015.  I hope that makes sense.  I know it can get a little tricky with all these parentheses, but the more you practice this,  the more comfortable you're going to get at it.  Last but not least, we're going to talk about how you can save a filter data frame because  after you're done with all your cleaning, you may want to save that new data frame in another  source.  This is how we do it.  We create another variable.  So in this case, I'm going to say I'm going to call this data frame high crime robbery df.  It could be anything you want.  I just chose it that because it matches the condition that we're going to do.  So if you look at this example, we're going to put that in our cell.  So we're going to say crime count robbery is greater than 5,000.  So once we do this, that's not going to return everything because it's stored in a variable  and we didn't specify Jupyter to execute a certain action.  However, if we create a new cell and then say high crime robbery df.head, that is going  to return the filter data frame based on whatever condition we specified.  That's really important to remember because whenever we perform Boolean masking, it is  not in place.  And what that means is it does not modify the original data frame.  If we wanted to put this in another data frame, we have to explicitly say so.  All right.  So that's all I got for this lesson.  I hope you learned something new.  And in the next lesson, we're going to dive deeper into cleaning data.  So make sure to stay tuned for that video.  If you haven't checked out my other previous lessons, then I highly encourage you to check  them out.  I'll see you in those videos and thank you guys for watching.