Hey guys, welcome to the eighth video in this Pandas  Crash Course playlist where I keep each video  around five to 10 minutes long.  So in this video, you're gonna learn about group by analysis  in Pandas.  That being said, let's get right into it.  In the previous video, we learned how to clean data  using some of the common techniques.  Now we're gonna talk about how we can group up these rows  into certain categories and then perform calculations  on those categories for further analysis.  As usual, the first step is to always import  the Pandas library as PD.  And then we're going to read the data frame and say,  DF is equal to read CSV.  And then we paste in the name of the CSV file,  which in this case is staycrime stats.csv.  I'm also gonna say df.com because I wanna know  what the column names are because they're gonna be useful  for me when I perform this group by analysis later.  Before I dive into the code, I wanna quickly explain  how group by analysis works.  So, group by in Pandas, let's us divide up the rows  into certain categories within the data frame.  For each of these categories, we're able to come up  with some calculation summary.  This can include things like coming up  with the average value, the sum of all the values,  the count.  There's three main steps for this process.  The first step is that we split the rows into groups.  The second step is that we apply that calculation  into those groups.  And then the third step is combining all of those  different calculations into a single data frame  so that we can present them as a summary.  And this process is known as split, apply, and combine.  For example, we could group up rows by location  and calculate the average unemployment rate  for each location.  So here's what this syntax looks like.  We say df.group by and then we're gonna use  the grouping column.  In this case, to follow the example that we listed here,  the column that we're gonna group by is the location column.  And if we go up here, we do in fact have  that inside our data frame just to double check.  So I'm gonna say location and then the second part  is the value column.  This is the second step, which is applying the calculation.  So what column do we want to apply the calculation on?  Well, in the example, we said we wanna calculate  the average unemployment rate.  So that's going to be our value column.  And then the aggregation method determines  what calculation we want to be performed.  And so we said that we want the average unemployment rate.  So it's gonna be dot mean.  And then pandit is automatically gonna combine  all of these different calculations  into a single summary.  So let me run that.  And so we can see that for each location that we have  so Midwest, Northeast, South, and West,  pandit has automatically done the calculation  of the unemployment rate.  This is very useful if we were to put this  on some sort of visual dashboard in the future.  So you just wrote your first group by statement  and there's so much more we can do with it.  Let's talk about some of the common aggregation methods  outside of dot mean.  We got dot sum, dot min, dot max, dot count.  Let's say that we want to find the total  burglary crimes by the year.  So we're gonna say df dot group by.  And then if we go back up to this reference  that I put up here, this is something  that's gonna be very useful for us.  The two main things we need to know,  or actually three main things we need to know  is the grouping column, value column, the aggregation method.  So in this case, the grouping column  is gonna be the year because that's what we said  over here in this example.  And then the column for the calculations  that we want to perform on is going to be  the burglary crime count.  And I'm just gonna, I'm using this answer  from the cell that I read previously  because I want to make sure that I get the exact name right.  I'm just gonna copy that and then go back down here  and paste it.  And then because we want the total burglary crimes  by year, we say dot sum.  And this is gonna return us a series  for all the burglary crime counts  for each year in the dataset.  And so for these next examples,  I'm gonna go a little bit quicker.  So for this one, we want the lowest poverty rate.  So we're gonna say group by year and then the value column  is going to be the poverty rate which is over here.  So I paste that over here and then I say dot min.  So this is gonna give us the lowest poverty rate  for each year.  Let's do the same thing for the max.  So it's highest poverty rate by year.  Instead of min, it's going to be max.  All right, now let's talk about how we can group  multiple numeric columns.  And this works pretty much the same way  as grouping by for single column.  However, this time we need to place all the value columns  inside a list.  So if we look at this reference over here,  we just say group by and then the grouping column  like before.  And then this time we need to pass in the square brackets  and then pass in the square brackets again  and then put in the multiple columns.  So let's see what this looks like in the example.  Let's say that we want to get the average poverty  and unemployment rates based on the state.  So we're going to say df.group by and then the state  is going to be our grouping column.  And then in this case we have two value columns.  And I'm going to go up here to our df.coms  result to get the exact name correctly.  So we wanted poverty rate over here.  And if we go back down, I'm going to paste that  and we also wanted the unemployment rate up over here.  And we also need the aggregation method.  In this case, it's going to be the dot mean aggregation.  So that's pretty much it for grouping multiple columns.  Very straightforward.  The only big difference is that this is going  to return a data frame because we are  dealing with multiple columns now.  What if we wanted to perform more than one kind  of calculation on a column?  Well, in that case, we would use the dot ag method.  And this lets us combine the different calculations  into one operation.  So here's what that looks like.  We're going to say df.group by.  And then for this example, we want to group by the year.  So we're going to say that.  And then our value column, as we see over here  in this reference, is going to be the unemployment rate.  And the way we did before was that we just  listed out the kind of calculation we wanted.  However, that's not going to work in this case.  We're going to have to say dot ag.  And then inside as a list, we're going  to pass in all the different kind of calculations that we want.  So that's going to be the mean, the min, and the max.  So if you run that, then we get a data frame this time  because we're performing more than one calculation  and you can see that the column names in this data frame  are actually those calculations.  All right, now let's talk about grouping by multiple columns.  And this is different than grouping multiple columns  because in this case, that we talked about before,  we had multiple value columns.  But now in this case, we have multiple grouping columns.  So let's say we want to find the total unemployment rates  by the state and the year.  So again, it's exactly the same as before, except this time,  we pass in the grouping columns as a list.  So it's going to be state and year.  And then we say the value column is unemployment rate.  And everything else is the same.  We just say dot sum.  This is going to give us a series.  In this case, the order of how we specify our grouping columns  matter because there is some sort of hierarchy, if you will.  Because if you look at this, we get all the states.  And then within each state, it's broken down into different years.  And then it gives us the unemployment rates  for those corresponding years.  But if we want to switch it up so I can say state and then year.  And if we do that, then we can see here  that the year column is treated more as the parent column,  if that makes sense.  Last but not least, let's talk about resetting index.  And this makes the group result a lot easier  to perform further analysis on and do some sorting on,  which is something I'm going to talk about in a future video.  So for now, let's say that we want to get  the average poverty rate and unemployment rate for each state.  So let's see if we can do this without looking at the reference  that we had up here.  So we have df dot group by.  And then we know that we have a grouping column.  And that is the state.  And we also have two value columns.  So we're dealing with grouping multiple columns in this case.  And so it's going to be the poverty rate  and it's going to be the unemployment rate.  And I said before that we want to get the average.  So that's going to be the mean.  So this is what you get when you run that.  However, one thing that's bugging me  is that this state is part of the index  because that's our grouped column.  So to change that, it's a quick fix.  We can just copy this.  And then let me go back to this cell and paste it  and then say dot reset index.  Now we can see that the index is now  part of the data frame.  And then the actual indices are just numbers from zero.  Now that we have the indices reset,  it makes sorting the data a lot easier.  And so we're going to talk about sorting data in the next video.  And I know today was a lot of talking  on the different grouping techniques.  So if you've got any questions,  then feel free to drop it down in the comments below.  Other than that, thank you guys so much for watching.  And hope you guys have a good day.