Hey guys, welcome to the third video in this Pandas Crash Course playlist where I keep  each video around five to ten minutes long.  So in this third lesson, you're going to learn how to select specific rows and columns  in Pandas.  With that being said, let's get right into it.  In the previous lesson, we learned about what a data frame was as well as some basic methods  and attributes that we could use to explore the data frame.  So now we're going to take it even a step further.  And we're going to learn how to extract the specific data that we want.  The first step we need to take as usual is import the Pandas library.  And as you should know by now, it's just import pandas as PD.  And we're also going to say DF, which is data frame is equal to PD dot read CSV.  And we pass in the name of our CSV data set, which is state crime stats.  It's in our local folder when it's a DF dot head to return the first five rows of this  data frame.  And it's going to show us some stats on what the crime looks like.  And in this case, it's for Alabama.  All right, now we're going to talk about selecting one column from our data frame.  This is very straightforward.  All we got to do is say DF and the inside square brackets, we pass in the column name that  we want to look at.  So in this case, I want to look at the state column.  So I'm going to run that and it's going to return me a pandas series.  To select multiple columns, we need to pass in a list of column names within the  score brackets.  So it's going to be two sets of score brackets.  If we didn't put in the inner score brackets, then here's what that would look like.  We say state and then here, which are the column names that we want to get.  However, we don't have, we didn't pass in the inner score brackets.  So we run that and we're going to get a key error.  So we need to say DF and then put in the inner score brackets and then say state and year.  And this is going to return us a data frame containing only the columns that we specified.  Okay, now we're going to talk about two important methods with data frames.  And that is lock and I lock lock is where we can select rows and columns by their labels.  And specifically by their named index, and that's really important piece to to note.  And you'll see later why.  So if you noticed, if we ran DF, you can see here that we have these numbers all the way  on this left side and these represent the index.  So in this case, each index is a numerical value.  And if we want to return a single row using lock, then we can say DF dot lock.  And then if we return, if we pass in two, then we can see here that it's going to return  a series of all the information relating to that specific row.  So right now our lock method is performing the same as our I lock method because the this  two that we passed in here actually represents this third row because each index in this case  is in numerical order.  Let me demonstrate another example.  Okay, so I added this cell and this is going to randomize the numerical values of our index.  So now instead of going from zero to four, it's going to be random numbers.  This is what I want to do because I want to demonstrate this idea of named indexes rather  than something else that I'm going to dive into more called positional index.  Okay, now that our indexes are randomized, I'm going to show you something that we can  do with slicing.  Slicing is where we return a range of rows.  And we do that by saying DF dot lock.  And then we use a colon, everything before the left of the colon is the start and the right  of the colon represents the stop value.  And I'm going to say 355 and 100.  So what this is going to do is is going to return the range of rows where the indexes are  from 355 to 100.  And in this case, because this this row of an index of 345 is in between the one with 355  and 100, that row is also going to be displayed.  So if I run that, then we get these three rows.  And if we let's say if we wanted to do 282, then these four rows are going to be displayed.  I hope that makes sense.  If we wanted to have a starting bound where it comes after our stopping bound.  So in this case, you can see here that the 100 comes after the 355.  If we try to switch the order, let's see what happens.  We're going to get an empty data frame.  We need to make sure that the start bound appears before the stop bound.  So it has to be 355 and 100.  Okay, now we're going to talk about selecting rows with ILOC.  And it's not as common as the lock method, but still really important to know and to understand  the differences.  ILOC is used to select rows and columns by their integer position.  So in the lock method, I talked about named indexes.  So everything here, all these rows, they have an index name.  However, ILOC completely ignores that and only focuses on where each row is located within  the whole data frame.  If we said df.iloc2, then it's going to show us the third row because it's a zero-based  indexing structure.  So it's a little bit confusing if you're new to Python.  If you understand the indexing for lists, then it's pretty much the same concept.  So this is going to return third row and let's say we've put in five, that's going to return  us the sixth row.  And remember before we randomized indexes, so that's why all these numbers are scrambled  up right now.  So because ILOC is based on the position, if we were to pass in a string value, like let's  say that we had an index name in a row that was called high, then ILOC, if we ran that,  it would give us a type error because it does not take in anything other than numerical  value.  So for the range of rows, it's pretty similar to the lock method.  So for this case, we say ILOC and then we use the colon again and then the values that  we pass in are going to represent the position of the rows.  So in this case, we're getting the third row all the way up to, but not including the sixth  row.  That's one main difference between ILOC and LOC.  In ILOC, the stop bound, so this five is exclusive.  However, if this were dot LOC, then both of these values would be inclusive.  So if we ran that, this would only return us the third row, the fourth row, and the fifth  row.  To demonstrate the difference between LOC and ILOC even more, I'm going to use this example  where I use both of these methods to select the rows and columns at the same time.  So I'm going to first say df.lock and then df.iloc.  And for the df.lock, I'm going to scroll all the way up here, or actually, I'll just  run it down here.  I'm going to say df and then we can see here that this first row has an index value of 303  or 383.  So I want to say 383 because we can see here that the first parameter of LOC takes in the  name of the index.  And then the second parameter represents the name of the column, which, in this case,  I'm going to say year.  Let's run that, and this is going to give us this value of 2005.  I'm going to do the exact same thing, but with ILOC.  And you're going to see how the values that we pass in are a little bit different.  So with ILOC, instead of saying 383, I'm going to say zero.  Because this represents the first row of the data frame.  And remember, if we look over here, df.iloc takes in the row position.  And then the second parameter is the column position.  So we want to get the year column.  So that's going to be, again, for the columns, it's zero based index.  So we're going to say one.  That's going to give us the first row, first row, second column of 2005.  If you want to get a recap of the differences between LOC and ILOC, you can take a look at  this comparison chart here, as well as this part that shows the differences in the slicing  behavior.  And it'll also provide supplemental materials in the description below.  So you can check that out on my website.  OK, I'm going to end this lesson on a topic called Boolean Masking.  And I'm going to explain this concept more in the next lesson.  For now, I'm just going to give you a brief intro.  So we're going to use the dot LOC method.  And with Boolean Masking, it allows us to select rows based on a condition rather than  only providing an index value.  So I want to say df dot LOC, and then inside the square brackets, we pass in a condition.  And this is just like an if statement without the if keyword.  So we're going to say, let's say we want to only retrieve the rows where the state is  equal to Alabama.  We're going to say df, and then we pass in the column name, which is state, and we say  that's equal to Alabama.  So this is going to give us a data frame where all of the rows match the condition that we  specified here.  And it uses Booleans to retrieve the correct rows.  I'm going to talk about this more in the next lesson.  So stay tuned for that.  I hope you learned something new in this lesson.  And if you haven't checked out my previous lessons, then I highly encourage you to do that.  So thank you guys so much for watching.