Hey guys, welcome to the sixth video in this pandas crash course playlist where I keep  each video around five to 10 minutes long.  So in today's lesson, we're going to be talking about updating rows and pandas.  With that being said, let's get right into it.  For the past few lessons, we've been talking about filtering data and using conditions.  Now we're going to apply those concepts into updating values.  This is really important to know because there may be times when we're working with real  data sets when the data is factually incorrect and we want to change it manually.  So here's what that's going to look like.  As usual, we're going to import the pandas library by saying import pandas as pddf equals  to pdf reads csv and then we're going to put in the name of the file and we're going to return  the first five rows of this data frame.  In lesson three, we talked about using the lock method to select specific rows and columns  within the data frame.  We're going to use that same idea to extract a value from a certain row and column.  So let's say that we want to get the value that's in row five and it's in the state column.  So we can say lock and then we pass in the name of this row, which is four and then we're  going to pass in the column name, which is state and this is going to give us Alabama.  So let's change that value now.  So instead of being Alabama, let's say we want this to be equal to Washington.  So this is going to update the data frame so that the value instead of Alabama is now Washington  at the row label of four and the column name of state.  So if we run df.lock and then say four state again, that's going to give us Washington.  So it's important to notice that this operation is in place.  Okay, so that example showed us how to update a single value.  However, in most cases, we're going to be updating multiple rows at the same time.  So to do that, this is where the filtering comes in.  Over here is a basic format on how to do this.  So in the first parameter of lock, we're going to pass in the condition and then the second  parameter, we're going to pass in the column name.  So this is going to make more sense with an example.  So let's get right into that in this first example, we're going to be handling with the  Washington state.  We're going to say df.lock and then the first condition or the first parameter is going  to be the df state column.  And then we only want to retrieve or we want, only want to handle the Washington states.  The second parameter is going to be the column name that we want to update.  So that's going to be here.  Let's say that we want to update the Washington states of the year column to another value  of 2005.  So let's run that.  And doing this is going to automatically update the data frame because like I said before,  this operation is in place.  So if I do df and then if I return all the rows where we only retrieve the Washington states,  we can see that now for all the states that are equal to Washington, we're going to have  a year of 2005 because of this updating that we did.  I hope that made sense because I know that we're applying many different concepts at once.  So I'm moving on to another example to really reinforce this idea.  But now we're going to reset the data frame so that we can now perform more modifications.  Okay, for this case, let's say that whenever we have a year column that has a value of 2005,  we want to update it to 2010.  So what that's going to look like is we're going to say df.lock and then we're going to say  df and then year is equal to equal to 2005.  And then we're going to say year and then we said we wanted to update it to 2010.  So we're going to say 2010 and then let's see what the values look like now.  So if I want to verify that this actually worked, then we can say df and then df year is  equal to 2005.  And because we updated all the 2005 values to 2010, this should return an empty data frame.  So if you run that, we're going to get an empty, empty result.  All right, now we're going to learn how to update multiple rows and columns at the same time.  So we're going to reset the data frame again and we're going to perform the modifications  again.  For this case, we're going to follow this format where we pass in the condition in the  first parameter that was the same as before.  However, this time, we're going to pass in multiple columns in the second parameter.  And we do that by passing in a list of columns.  And then we have to pass in a list of new values that are going to replace the old values.  So let's say that we only want to update the values where the state is equal to Alabama.  So we're going to say df log and then df state is equal to equal to Alabama.  And then the second parameter is going to contain the list of columns that we want to be updated.  So it's going to, for this case, I'm going to say year and I'm going to say crime count  burglary.  And let's say we want to update those values so the year is 2010 and the crime count burglary  is equal to 55,000.  And the order of how we pass in these new values matters because the first value is going  to correspond to the first column that we specified, the second value is going to correspond  to the second column that we specified.  I run that.  That's going to update the values and so now I all have to do is say df and then df state  is equal to Alabama just to verify that the filtering worked properly.  And now we can see that the updating worked properly because all of the states of Alabama  is equal to 2010, all of the crime count burglary is equal to 55,000.  Last but not least, we're going to talk about the replace method.  And this is similar to what we've been working with so far, however the notation is slightly  different.  So let's say we want to update the year column.  So I'm going to say df year and set that equal to df year and we're going to say dollar  replace with 2000, 2010.  And notice I'm just following this format over here where we're swapping all the 2005 values  with 2010.  So if I do that, now I'm going to say df and then df year is equal to 2005.  And this is going to return an empty result because we have successfully replaced all the  2005 values with our new value replace multiple values.  It's also pretty straightforward.  We're going to say df year and then say that is equal to df year.replace.  And let's say that we want to replace the years of 2006, 2007, and we want to replace the  years of 2008, which doesn't not.  What that's going to look like is we're going to pass in dictionary and then we're going  to list out those swapping pairs.  So it's from 2006 to 2007 and then 2008 to 2009.  That's going to modify the data frame.  So to verify, we're going to return all the values were the years equal to 2006 and that  should return nothing because we have successfully replaced all of those 2006 values with 2007.  Let's do the same thing with 2008.  So all the 2008 values should now be replaced with 2009.  And so that's why there's nothing showing up here.  So we only want to use this replace method if we know the actual values that we want to  replace.  And so that's why it's generally more common to use the lock method instead of this method  because oftentimes don't know the actual value we want to replace.  So that's the main difference between this replace method and what we've been doing up over  here.  That's all I got for this video.  I hope you find it helpful and thank you guys so much for watching.  If you haven't watched a previous lesson then I highly recommend you do that.  It's on advanced filtering.  If you haven't seen the next lesson then stay tuned for that because it's going to be  on cleaning missing data and if it is already out then you'll see a pop up on the right hand  screen.  Hopefully I see you in one of those two videos and hope you guys have a good day.